---
cover: /articles/2.png
date: 2024-04-03T00:00:00.000Z
description: 
layout: article
---

# Advent and Utility of Live Music

We're doing more live music since the element of spontaneity and live performance is more fun.

It also provides a faster way to test, deliver, and produce content.

## Research aspects

There is compelling evidence that music holds the power to positively impact various aspects of our lives, from our daily outcomes to the quality of our relationships. 

Studies have shown that listening to certain kinds of music can reduce stress levels, enhance mood, and even improve cognitive function. 

Furthermore, music has the unique ability to forge connections between individuals, serving as a universal language that transcends cultural barriers. 

Whether it's bonding over a shared favorite song or attending a live concert together, music has the remarkable ability to strengthen the bonds between people and foster a sense of community.

## Utility to listener of live music

In the realm of live music, there exists an undeniable human element that adds depth and richness to the listening experience. 

Each week, as musicians take to the stage to perform, they infuse their music with emotion, passion, and authenticity. 

This live interaction with music not only simplifies its appreciation but also serves to increase the uptake and listening quantity of novel musical pieces. 

There's something inherently captivating about witnessing a performance unfold in real-time, knowing that each note played is a product of human skill and creativity. 

As such, live music becomes more than just a form of entertainment—it becomes a gateway to discovering new sounds and experiences that have the power to relax the soul and uplift the spirit.

Music at Lofi Wurld will be delived more in live.

::articles-list
---
path: articles
---
::
In this file, use the `articles-list` component to display the list of articles:

```md [2.articles.md]
---
title: 'Articles'
layout: 'page'
---
::articles-list
---
path: articles
---
::
```

The `path` prop corresponds to the directory where the articles are stored.

## Display an article in the list

Create a new file in the `/content/articles` directory:

```bash
mkdir content/articles
touch content/articles/1.my-new-article.md
```

For your article to be correctly displayed in the [articles list](/articles), define a `cover` and `date` property in the frontmatter:

```yaml [content/articles/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
---
```

The `cover` property can be a local path relative to the `/public` directory or an external URL.

Your article will now be displayed in the list with its filename as a default title.

## Edit your article

Under the frontmatter block, enter a Markdown `h1` tag and a line of text:

```md [content/articles/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
---
# An awesome article
This article is little by size but big by heart.
```

Your article will now be displayed in the list with the title and description you wrote in Markdown.

## Override title and description

If you want to change the title and description displayed on the list and in the meta tags of the article, add the `title` and `description` property to your frontmatter:

```md [content/articles/1.my-new-article.md]
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
title: Another title
description: Another description
---
```

You are now ready to edit your article and create new ones!

## Optional Arguments

In the frontmatter block, you can pass additional options for displaying your article, such as displaying badges on the image:

```md
---
cover: path/to/cover
date: 2022-08-23
badges: [{
  color: 'white',
  bg: 'rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3)',
  content: 'Technology'
}]
---
```

## Read more

Alpine is a Nuxt theme using the Content module in `documentDriven` mode.

👉 Learn more in the [Nuxt Content documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/).
