---
cover: /scripts/german-reunification-1.webp
author:
  name: Lofi Wurld
  avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1042510623962275840/1Iw_Mvud_400x400.jpg
  link: https://twitter.com/lofiwurld
date: 2024-04-04T00:00:00.000Z
layout: article
description: Scripts and accompanying references for the story of German Reunification - History and culture.

badges:
  - color: 'white'
    bg: 'rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3)'
    content: 'History and Culture'

---

# The Story of German Reunification

Originally streamed on March 4th 2024 [Lofi wurld](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0YZ_VByD24&t=547s&ab_channel=LofiWurld).

Watch the full [video here](https://youtu.be/Y5LVItDYprs).

## Introduction - German Reunification

For 45 years, Germany was split in two. Several generations of Germans were traumatised and still remember life as it was then:  the East administered by the Soviet Union and the West by the Western Allies.

In 1945, Allied forces partitioned the defeated Third Reich into four military occupation zones. France, the United Kingdom and the United States occupied the West, which became the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) when the three zones merged on 23 May 1949; 

The Soviet Union occupied the East, which became the German Democratic Republic (GDR) on 7 October 1949.

Berlin suffered the same fate. It was split in two and despite lying deep in the Soviet-dominated East, West Berlin remained an enclave of the Western Allies.

### Scene 2 - Emigration, border control

West Germany was a democratic country where Politicians were elected in free elections; it was allied with the United States of America and had a capitalist economic system meaning Businesses were owned by citizens. 


East Germany, on the other hand, was a communist country, a one-party state. The communist party ruled all the time, elections were only for show, and all businesses were owned by the state. Like other states in the Soviet bloc, it was controlled by the Soviet Union.

West Germany's economy began to grow faster and faster in the 1950s, while East Germany's economy was not doing so well. 


This led to many people moving from East to West Germany for a better life. To stop this emigration, the border between East and West Germany was closed in 1961 by East German forces. 

This border was part of the Iron Curtain - a term used to describe the political boundary dividing Europe into two separate areas from the end of World War II. Between 1961 and 1989, leaving East Germany was very hard and extremely dangerous. 

Officially leaving East Germany took years to be approved, and people who applied were often spied on by East German police. Many people who tried to flee over the border were shot and killed there.
Relations between East and West degenerated into the Cold War. 

And Churchill’s Iron Curtain metaphor was superseded by that of the Berlin Wall, which came to symbolise this troubled period. Families were torn apart during this time and Berliners often risked their lives to join their loved ones on the other side of the Wall.

### Scene 3 - NATO Files

NATO welcomed West Germany as a member on 6 May 1955, a day after its status as an occupied country came to an end - when the Bonn-Paris conventions came into effect on 5 May 1955.

East Germany became a member of the Warsaw Pact when it was formed a few days later on 22 May 1955. 


From then on, Germany became the hub of espionage and military activity throughout the Cold War and the centre stage of diplomatic posturing. Soviet-occupied Berlin remained the capital of East Germany while West Germany chose Bonn. 

The end of the Cold War was a massive U-turn in international relations. 

It happened over a very short period of time and was the result of a series of factors – political, economic and military - that culminated in the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. 

But the fall of the Berlin Wall from 9th to 10th November 1989 marked the radical change in international relations, epitomizing the beginning of a new era. 

The reunification of Germany that followed was another step forward for Germany and all of Europe.

In 1989, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev started to open the Soviet Union to the West. Many of the communist countries followed his example. 

East Germany tried to ignore this trend, but in 1989, public protests grew inside the country. After some efforts to keep the country stable, the border was finally opened on 9th November 1989. 

The conversion of East Germany into a democratic country started almost immediately, despite some wanting the process to take a long time for various reasons. 

During the following 11 months, the terms of unification were negotiated between East and West Germany, France, Great Britain, The United States of America and The Soviet Union, and the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany also called the Two Plus Four Treaty, signed by the two German states and the four wartime allies, opened the way towards reunification.

### Scene 4 - Reunification and Constitution

When it came to reunification, two options were written in the West German constitution - also known as the Grundgesetz
The first was to Make a new country with a new Constitution. 

crafting a new constitution would allow for a tailored and modern legal framework that could address the unique circumstances of the reunification process.

But this would be time-consuming and resource-intensive, with the added risk of encountering resistance or disagreement on key constitutional principles, which could impede the smooth transition to a unified nation.


The second option that was written was to let the new federal states join the existing Federal Republic of Germany.


Chancellor Helmut Kohl, The then Chancellor, opposed a new constitution during reunification as it only required a majority vote in the constituent assembly, unlike the two-thirds majority needed for Basic Law alterations. 


He feared that a new constitution might introduce more direct democracy, a concern rooted in his belief that excessive direct democracy contributed to the failure of the Weimar Republic, officially known as the German Reich, in contrast to representative democracy.


Direct democracy involves citizens directly participating in decision-making through voting, while representative democracy relies on elected officials to make decisions on behalf of the people.


It was agreed by other German political leaders that Germany did not need a new constitution, so the Basic Law would remain for the unified Germany. 


Thus, the second option was chosen, and on 3 October 1990, at (one minute past 12 midnight) 00:01 the five new federal states of Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia and reunified Berlin officially joined the Federal Republic of Germany. The German Democratic Republic ceased to exist at this moment.


There were some minor edits made to it relating to reunification; the main one being that article twenty-three was taken out because there were no parts of Germany left ununited. 


On July 16, 1990, in a meeting with Kohl, Gorbachev, the then General Secretary of the Soviet Union, and a citizen of Moscow, acknowledged reunified Germany’s sovereignty from the Soviet Union.


A decision that made him enduringly popular in Germany to this day.


It became official that Germany was reunified under the Basic Law, and no other nation had a claim against its sovereignty.


The Grundgesetz remains the cornerstone of Germany’s government.

### Scene 5 - Outro and Germany today

With the reunification of Germany on 3 October 1990, Berlin was reinstated as the capital city of united Germany and the Länder of the former German Democratic Republic joined the Federal Republic of Germany in its membership of NATO. Germany had withdrawn from the Warsaw Pact in September 1990, just a few days before German unity.


For decades, NATO support for German reunification had been steadfast and was all the more special that when it happened, the then Secretary General, Manfred Wörner, was the first German to have occupied this post.


The pivotal decision made on July 16, 1990, acknowledging Germany's sovereignty, remains etched in history, contributing to enduring popularity for those involved. 

In the face of challenges, Germany's journey stands as a testament to the resilience of its people, reminding us that the nation we cherish today is the result of hard work, sacrifice, and a collective commitment to a united and prosperous future.

Thank you for joining us on this enriching exploration of history and culture. We hope you've not only gained valuable insights but also found moments of relaxation and reflection. Join us again next week for another captivating installment as we continue 

our journey through the ages. Until then, stay curious, stay inspired, and most importantly, stay relaxed. History and Culture bid you farewell, and we look forward to welcoming you back soon.

## References

- [NATO FILES](https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/declassified_136311.htm#:~:text=With%20the%20reunification%20of%20Germany,in%20its%20membership%20of%20NATO) 

- [Weimar Republic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weimar_Republic)

- [Direct and representative democracy](https://www.democracy.community/stories/brexit-and-case-more-not-less-direct-democracy)

- [The Grundgesetz](https://pubs.lib.uiowa.edu/iowa-historical-review/article/31131/galley/140307/view/)

- [Gorbachev Memory](https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-nato-mikhail-gorbachev-berlin-communism-a1f35f1f9de08e137a4f361135c94e45)

- [Library of congress image - east and west Germany map](https://www.loc.gov/resource/g6080.ct002946/?r=-0.398,-0.122,1.809,1.434,0)

- [East germany conversion to democracy](https://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1519&context=ilj)

### Images

- [German reunification and pictures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_reunification)

- [Republicfluckt + images](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republikflucht)


## How to support

Support Lofi Wurld by subscribing to our channel and socials below.

### Where to watch or listen to Lofi Wurld

You can listen to Lofi Wurld Music on the following platforms.

- [Youtube Music - Joshoowar](https://music.youtube.com/channel/UCsOyLGc8gwEcAmSp9vH9B7w)
- [Lofi Wurld Music - youtube](https://music.youtube.com/@Lofiwurld)
- [Lofi Wurld TV - Youtube](https://music.youtube.com/@Lofiwurld)
- [Spotify - Joshoowar](https://open.spotify.com/artist/4AvUyB3XD2MXyLwGVc43JP)
- [Spotify - Dunn One (Lofi Wurld)](https://open.spotify.com/artist/5SY403YZKzZqWrP92MDRzG)
- [Instagram - Lofi Wurld](https://instagram.com/lofiwurldmusic)

Artists are also available on all major music platforms.

## Find out more

Find out more about all the shows we produce and their goals/purposes [here](/articles/shows).

